Document recursion limit overflow (#882)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.10.0/docs/daml/troubleshooting.rst

  [Type checker] Argument expands to non-serializable type Party -> Party.

Error: "Recursion limit overflow in module"
*******************************************

> The error usually occurs when uploading a DAR to a ledger or using a Script
> via the sandbox. It can manifest on upload as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error usually occurs when uploading a DAR to a ledger or using a script
via the sandbox. It can manifest on upload as:
```

> The error will usually occur when uploading a DAR to a ledger or using a Script
> via the sandbox. It can manifest on upload as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error usually occurs when uploading a DAR to a ledger or using a Script
via the sandbox. It can manifest on upload as:
```

.. code:: text

  upload-dar did not succeed: DAR_PARSE_ERROR(8,b5935497): Failed to parse the dar file content.

> or in your logs as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or in your logs as:
```

.. code:: text

  Recursion limit overflow in module '<pkgid>:<modulename>'

> The cause of this error is usually having an expression in the DAR whose
> serialized representation exceeds a depth 1000 layers. This can be caused by
> long Daml scripts, since every use of a function call or ``<-`` to bind a
> variable in a ``do`` block can incur several layers of recursion in the ``do``
> block's serialized representation. This can also be caused by large datatypes
> with more than 160 fields with ``deriving`` clauses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error is usually caused by having an expression in the DAR whose
serialized representation exceeds a depth of 1000 layers. This can be caused by
long Daml scripts, since every use of a function call or ``<-`` to bind a
variable in a ``do`` block can incur several layers of recursion in the ``do``
block's serialized representation. Large datatypes
with more than 160 fields with ``deriving`` clauses can also cause this.
```

Solving script recursion limits
===============================

Normally, one call inside ``do`` introduces 4 layers of recursion, meaning

> about 250 binds in Script can cause an overflow. However, other expressions in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about 250 binds in a script can cause an overflow. However, other expressions in a
```

> Normally, one call inside ``do`` will introduce 4 layers of recursion, meaning
> about 250 binds in Script can cause an overflow. However, other expressions in a
> do block, such as let binds, will also introduce a layer of recursion, so
> functions with fewer binds can also trigger the limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, one call inside ``do`` introduces 4 layers of recursion, meaning
about 250 binds in Script can cause an overflow. However, other expressions in a
do block, such as let binds, also introduce a layer of recursion, so
functions with fewer binds can also trigger the limit.
```

> One possible workaround to a large script would be to split it into multiple
> scripts, or to separate logic in the script out to helper functions. For
> example, assume you have written the following long script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible workarounds include splitting a large script into multiple
scripts or separating logic in the script out into helper functions. For
example, assume you have written the following long script:
```

.. code:: daml

  data State = State { partA : Text, partB : Text, partC : Text }

  -- MyTemplate defines three choices that update parts A, B, and C of the State
  myScript : Party -> ContractId MyTemplate -> State -> Script State
  myScript party cid state0 = do
    newPartA <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartA state0)
    newPartB <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartB state0)
    newPartC <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartC state0)
    let state1 = State newPartA newPartB newPartC

    newPartA <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartA state1)
    newPartB <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartB state1)
    newPartC <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartC state1)
    let state2 = State newPartA newPartB newPartC

    ...
    newPartA <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartA state99)
    newPartB <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartB state99)
    newPartC <- party `submit` exerciseCmd cid (UpdateStatePartC state99)
    let state100 = State newPartA newPartB newPartC

    pure state100

> This script will have 300 binds, well exceeding the tentative limit of 250
> binds. We can refactor this script to instead define and use a helper
> ``updateStateOnce``, which runs all three choices together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script has 300 binds, well exceeding the tentative limit of 250
binds. We can refactor this script to instead define and use a helper
``updateStateOnce``, which runs all three choices together.
```

> **Note:** In many cases, the compiler will optimize your script to produce an
> expression that does not break the recursion limit despite having many binds. In
> this example, we have given an intentionally convoluted example that is
> difficult for the compiler to optimize away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** In many cases, the compiler optimizes your script to produce an
expression that does not break the recursion limit despite having many binds. In
this example, we have given an intentionally convoluted example that is
difficult for the compiler to optimize away.
```

.. code:: daml

  -- Something similar to this code is implicitly autogenerated by the `deriving Show` clause
  instance Show MyData where
    show MyData {..} =
      show field1A <> (show field1B <> (show field1C <> (
        (show field2A <> (show field2B <> (show field2C <> (
          ...
          (show field100A <> (show field100B <> (show field100C)))
        ))))
      )))

You can see that the implicit, autogenerated definition of ``show`` has an
expression that becomes more and more deeply nested as you go along. Once the
number of fields exceeds about 160, this expression has the potential to reach
the depth necessary to cause an overflow in its serialized representation in the
DAR.

Similarly to Daml Scripts, the recommended workaround for this issue is to split
your datatype into many parts. For example, we could create an additional
datatype ``Helper`` which contains the elements ``a``, ``b``, and ``c``, and use
that within ``MyData``:

.. code:: daml

  data Helper = Helper
    { a : Text
    , b : Text
    , c : Text
    }
    deriving Show

  data MyData = MyData
    { field1 : Helper
    , field2 : Helper
    ...
    , field100 : Helper
    }
    deriving Show

> The generated code for ``MyData`` now will have only 100 fields to traverse and
> nest, much fewer than necessary to trigger the recursion depth issue. Similarly
> to scripts, it is a good idea to keep your datatypes small, by maximizing code
> reuse and splitting logic into maintainable chunks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated code for ``MyData`` now has only 100 fields to traverse and
nest. Similarly
to scripts, it is a good idea to keep your datatypes small, by maximizing code
reuse and splitting logic into maintainable chunks.
```
